# AWS Assignment

## Amazon Cloud Watch

***Q1.*** *What is Amazon CloudWatch?*

***Ans.***

Amazon CloudWatch is a monitoring and observability service built for DevOps engineers, developers, site reliability engineers (SREs), and IT managers. CloudWatch provides you with data and actionable insights to monitor your applications, respond to system-wide performance changes, optimize resource utilization, and get a unified view of operational health. CloudWatch collects monitoring and operational data in the form of logs, metrics, and events, providing you with a unified view of AWS resources, applications, and services that run on AWS and on-premises servers. You can use CloudWatch to detect anomalous behavior in your environments, set alarms, visualize logs and metrics side by side, take automated actions, troubleshoot issues, and discover insights to keep your applications
running smoothly.

***Q2.*** *What is CloudWatch Metrics?*

***Ans.***

CloudWatch Metrics are time series performance data about your AWS services and resources. These metrics mostly relate to application performance and resource utilisation.

Because each CloudWatch Metric is time-stamped you can continually monitor and review data points in relation to a particular application or overall set of applications and resources. This in turn allows you to build up a picture about your overall operational health and, if you’d like, to set alarms when the performance falls out of an expected range or band.


***Q3.*** *How do CloudWatch Alarms work?*

***Ans.***

A CloudWatch Alarm can be set to trigger based on the change in state or threshold of one or more CloudWatch Metrics. You can configure the CloudWatch Alarm to evaluate a combination of metrics by applying math or percentile-based expressions. You can use up to 10 CloudWatch Metrics to build math expressions as long as those CloudWatch Metrics are covering the same period.


***Q4.*** *What are CloudWatch Logs?*

***Ans.***

AWS CloudWatch Logs is a place to store, access and monitor logs that come from AWS Services, customer application code and other sources. CloudWatch logs allows customers to centralize their logs, retain them and then analyse/access them off one scalable platform.

## AWS Cloud Trail

***Q1.*** *What is AWS CloudTrail?*

***Ans.***

AWS CloudTrail is a service that enables governance, compliance, operational auditing, and risk auditing of your AWS account. With CloudTrail, you can log, continuously monitor, and retain account activity related to actions across your AWS infrastructure. CloudTrail provides event history of your AWS account activity, including actions taken through the AWS Management Console, AWS SDKs, command line tools, and other AWS services. This event history simplifies security analysis, resource change tracking, and troubleshooting. In addition, you can use CloudTrail to detect unusual activity in your AWS accounts. These capabilities help simplify operational analysis and troubleshooting.

***Q2.*** *What does CloudTrail log?*

***Ans.***

CloudTrail typically logs a whole bunch of metadata about the API call that takes place and that metadata tends to vary quite significantly from service to service. At a foundational level, CloudTrail will capture the following:

**CloudTrail Schema**

* *type* – what type of userIdentity triggered the event (ie was it an IAM User), Root, another AWS Service etc
* *userIdentity* – includes the ARN of the user or role that generated the request
* *eventSource* – the service that the request was made to
* *eventTime* – the time when the event took place
* *awsRegion* – which region the event took place in
* *eventName* – what the event actually was
* *sourceIPAddress* – which IP Address the request was made from
* *userAgent* – how the call was made (ie SDK, CLI, Console)
* *errorCode* – if any errors occurred
* *errorMessage* – more details on any errors
* *requestParameters* – any parameters from the request; these vary per service and per API endpoint
* *responseElements* – the response for any action that makes a change; these also vary on a service by service basis
* *additionalEventData* – any further data about the event
* *requestID* – a value that identifies the specific request; this is generated by the service itself
* *eventID* – different from the requestID; this is generated by CloudTrail as a unique ID for each single event
* *eventType* – tells you if it was an AwsApiCall that generated the event, an AwsServiceEvent generated by a service or if it was generated by an IAM user
* *apiVersion* – if there was an AwsApiCall that generated the event, this will tell you the API apiVersion
* *managementEvent* – was this a management event?
* *readOnly* – was the operation read only?
* *resources* – any resources that were connected to the event; the details can include ARNs, Account IDs connected to the resource owner and other identifiers
* *recipientAccountId* – the account that received the event
* *serviceEventDetails* – can contain data about the event trigger and its result
* *sharedEventID* – if a CloudTrail event is delivered to multiple accounts this will show as a unique way of associating the data between those accounts
* *vpcEndpointId* – the VPC endpoint if requests were made from a VPC to a different AWS service

## The Difference between CloudWatch and CloudTrail

***CloudWatch focuses on the activity of AWS services and resources, reporting on their health and performance. On the other hand, CloudTrail is a log of all actions that have taken place inside your AWS environment.***